## Electability
Focusing on electability is a distraction from the larger issues at play. Yes,
Donald Trump is hugely problematic and we should try to replace him with
somebody far better. However, if we center the conversation on electability in
order to beat Donald Trump in the next election, we may lose out either way.
We are facing a number of major issues right now. Climate change is perhaps the
most existential, but then there are the healthcare crisis, growing economic
inequality, institutional racism, international conflict, refugees, and in
general the slow erosion of our freedoms to the benefit of a small elite and
global corporations. If we elect a candidate who is tepid on these issues then
we will waste another four to eight years while things continue to gradually
fall apart around us. On climate change in particular, we cannot afford to sit
on our hands for four or more years without taking aggressive action. And after
that, if we haven't made measurable progress towards addressing these issues,
we may end up with another opportunistic Trump-alike candidate who will take
advantage of people's mounting anxieties for personal gain and to further
undermine our democracy. Bottom line is, we should put all of our weight behind
the candidates who are most committed to tackling the problems we face and who
have the best track record of actually doing so.

## Centrism & Electability
Are centrist candidates really more electable? Well, if we look back at the
last handful of elections, we've got Obama, who was to the left of Hillary, and
Trump, who is...well, he's out there. To suggest that the ideal candidate is
somehow on the spectrum between the two is to dramatically misunderstand and
oversimplify the motivations of voters. People are a complex mess of
motivations and cannot be classified on a one dimensional line somewhere
between liberal and conservative, nor are they looking for some middle average
of the two in candidates for office. They may be on the liberal extreme on one
issue and on the conservative extreme on another. Add to that the fact that
what constitutes a liberal or conservative viewpoint can change in a relatively
short period of time.

Between Obama and Trump, there are maybe a couple of qualities we can say they
have in common that aided their campaigns. Perhaps the more obvious is simply
their ability to excite people and get them motivated to vote. But underlying
that was perhaps something more fundamental: both candidates offered the
promise of change. Both Obama and Trump campaigned on making changes that would
help everyday people and were able to convince people that they meant it. In
Trump's case, it may be that people felt that regardless of his actual
intentions, he'd still be a hand grenade to the system, so they'd get some form
of change regardless. Now let's look at the alternatives. Hillary has been in
Washington for quite a long time and to many voters she symbolizes the
interests of the political elite and largely keeping existing power structures
in place. Biden has been around for quite a while, too, though he was
relatively little known until his time as vice president under Obama, and his
platform is largely based on returning to that era. That might sound like a
breath of fresh air after Trump, but it's still not a terribly inspiring
vision. Voters want to feel that a candidate will meaningfully improve their
lives, not that things will stay the same or regress. If we really want to see
success in the coming election, we need to front a candidate who energizes
voters and who will effect substantive change.

## Entrenched Power & Politics

https://www.washingtonpost.com/climate-environment/2019/06/04/joe-biden-embraces-green-new-deal-he-releases-climate-plan/
